so today I'm going to talk about
basically some of the nuts and ball
builder and we're going to have a few of
the engineers up here what we're going
to cover in detail is basically what
should be your first day of using
project builder we want to talk you
through getting the code that you have
into the new project builder
I'll cover the first bullet up there
importing a project to project builder
then honors vertical route is going to
come up one of the designers of the
build system and talk about how we
customize the build process to support
some other features that you may have in
your project and then finally Mike Faris
who is a lead designer of the CF bundle
objects on Mac OS 10 will talk about how
you actually create those bundles for
Mac OS 10 so just to recap what we
covered in the last session project
builder sits at the middle of a lot of
other tools it's sort of the central
clearinghouse for the developer
experience we talked the interface
builder we talked to the performance
tools we'll be integrating with all the
web objects tools and we invoke a
command-line compiler and debuggers to
do the real work of producing your
project and debugging it so this is what
project builder looks like today in
order to actually get your code into it
we've had built in some support for
three different streamlined transitions
one taking a basic source code project
taking a project builder whoa project
the old PD dot project files and also
we've built in fairly recently support
for importing code warrior projects so
importing source directories importing
source directories is fairly
straightforward this is a mainline
feature of the application so we allow
you to do it not only when you're
creating a new project but whenever you
want to add some more source code to
your projects basically in creating a
new project you you can make the project
either an empty project or any of the
existing
project templates that we support make
sure you have some targets in there it
makes it a little more convenient when
you actually import the source code and
then just grab some folders out of the
finder drop them into our group view of
project builder and you're good to go
you'll get all the factory default build
settings that you usually would have
with the project template so you may
have to do some work there if you're
importing a bear source code directory
for importing pbi project files the old
project builder a project builder wall
or whatever we decide to call it today
we have a very sophisticated automatic
import feature this is the feature that
we use ourselves to bring the PDX code
base into our own IDE so we initially
started developing on the old project
builder when we got enough stuff there
we did switch the entire team over to
developing on our own app and we've had
a lot of testing on this because there
are a lot of people who are using the
old project builder at Apple and need to
get their code into the new system so
we've had a lot of testing we have a lot
of features on this so if you're if you
currently have a PVD project file this
should be a very simple process for you
the one caveat is that if you've written
sophisticated make file post amble and
preamble and old project builder users
will know what that is and make file a
preamble will have some settings of
build variables you may have to go into
the target editor and set up some of
those settings yourself and if you have
sophisticated build actions that you put
into the post amble we do have support
for that in the new environment but our
model is very different so we aren't
able to give you an automated transfer
of those build actions but we do give
you a very straightforward way to
implement them and hopefully it
shouldn't take much time unless your
project is extremely sophisticated we
also support code warrior projects the
code warrior project that we support or
the XML code warrior projects so you'll
need to output an XML based file from
code warrior and then again just invoke
our automatic import feature we'll bring
in all of your groups and files we'll
bring in
the compatible targets as far as we can
go some of the rad features and things
are not of course in our project model
so they don't translate over and will
translate your compiler settings again
as best we can given that we're running
on a tool that's very different from
what Metro refuses and again as you can
imagine once you import the code warrior
project you'll have to tune it a little
bit you have to tweak some of the
settings prop to get some of the
features that you're going to want and
as we see some of the tuning that needs
to be done again this is a newer feature
we'll be adding more and more automation
and hopefully get better and better and
eventually on par with the current level
of old project builder import that we
have so now I'd like to bring up honors
Bertrille rude he's one of the designers
of our build system and he's also the
guy that's responsible for that with the
slide views that you see in the UI so
what we're going to do is just cover the
three ways that I just talked about it
getting your source code into project
builder the first way is going to be a
source simple import of a source
directory we'll use the simple text
sources to show this so the first thing
that honors is going to do is bring up
the new project because we want to start
out with a carbon application because we
know that simple text is going to be
eventually a carbon carbon application
so he'll select that and choose a spot
word on the file system and then we're
ready to go so we get here is basically
created out of our project template and
it does give you a lot of nice factory
default it gives you a default target it
gives you some some standard groups but
since we're going to be importing these
things we really don't want the sources
that we put in here or the resources so
on we'll just select those and delete
them from project and so now what we can
do is we can go out to finder and we can
grab the simple text source base
and we'll just drag that folder right
into project builder and what this what
happens now is a sheet comes down that I
don't know if you all can you can all
see that from where you are it gives you
a few options the first thing is it will
give you a list of the targets to choose
from right now we only have one if that
target is checked all those files will
go into the target into the right spot
I'll show you that in a minute the two
other checkboxes are kind of interesting
the first one we're actually going to
check which tells project builder to
actually take the source base and copy
it into the directory we created for the
new project you can also leave that
unchecked and simply reference those
project files wherever they happen to
reside on the disk though I do want to
point out that that referencing facility
is not a substitute for the Mac os10
layering that we provide with the
frameworks and shared libraries so I
encourage you if you find yourself
leaving that box unchecked and sharing a
bunch of directories between projects to
really explore the back OS 10 framework
model because that's probably going to
serve you a lot better in the long run
the next thing that is up there is a
check box it says recursively create
groups from added folders so what that
tells project builder to do is to
basically descend the source tree that
you've just dragged in and create a
project model for it so every folder
gets a group and every file will get
what we call file reference that points
to that and the paths will all be set up
nicely for you so you can easily move
things around if you leave that
unchecked what it's going to do is
import those things in what we call a
folder reference on basically project
builder though it allows you to navigate
down into that folder reference it
basically treats it as a filesystem blob
so you you get the same experience you
would navigating down that folder in in
finder it will keep it synced with the
filesystem
and in the build system we'll look at
that folder as a single entity and this
is to support people who maybe have
multiple image directories or resource
directories that they just want to treat
as a blob and they're not very
interested in having fine control over
it you usually always leave that box
check
for importing sources so why don't we go
ahead and do that hit ok and we're let
the disk spin for a little bit while it
copies all the sources over and what you
see is that we've basically grabbed all
the simple text files and put them into
their own group and of course you're
free at this point to move them around
to reorder them to regroup them to do
whatever you want if it imported some
files made it part of the project that
files that you're not interested in
having you can obviously take those out
of the project the other thing that it
did if we go over to the target panel is
it put them all into the target for you
and the target is actually set up nicely
because we separate our target out into
what we call build phases and these
build phases know what files they'd like
to have in them we put your headers in
the header space we've put any resources
that we might have into the into the
resources and we've also gotten any
frameworks and libraries that you might
want we also have some build settings
and some other things that Andres is
going to cover after the demo discussing
how you might want to set up your
project but we do have of course all the
factory default build settings on this
so the other thing that I wanted to show
is just the way that we have imported
these files if Honor's wants to just
bring up the inspector briefly if we
raise the inspector what we try to do is
make all of these files as relative as
possible that allows you to the most
flexibility in terms of structuring your
project so we'll bring everything in as
a group relative reference if you've
told us to recursively create those
groups for you and of course you're
welcome to change that to whatever kind
of reference you want but most of these
imports are going to import these
relative to the paths we've assigned to
the particular group and so why don't we
close that project and now what we're
going to do is import the same project
but we've created an old PDF project
file in here and we're going to import
it as a pbi project file so it says PVL
project and what Andres has done here is
brought up our file importer and you can
select that off of the file menu he's
selecting the Peavey
project file and all you have to do once
you've selected that file is just hit
finish and because we own the PV I
project model we go through intake every
setting that we know about and translate
it over into the new project model so
again we have the groups and files and
what you'll see here if you're an old
project builder user you'll be you'll be
very used to the hierarchy that we've
set up very much like the old suitcases
that were in PV whoa and of course the
difference is that now you can go
through and move these files around
however you want it affects nothing in
the build system it affects nothing in
the file system unless you tell it you
want you want it to affect it and again
we'll have a very similar target so
honors can show that target setting
basically this is going to look very
similar with the with the added benefit
that because we know this format because
we have a lot more information here
we're able to bring over a lot more of
your compiler settings and and build
settings that you used to having inside
of the old project builder so finally
we're going to show the newest feature
which is importing the code warrior
project and again we've made simple text
into a code warrior project we saved it
out as XML onder's will raise the code
warrior importer at this point select
the XML file and hit finish and what we
have is again project builder project
we've got our sources we've got all of
our files that we expect again this is
going to be paralleling whatever
structure you have a code warrior the
other thing that we have is again a
target and since we actually have two
targets inside of the code Warrior
Project we brought both of them over and
translated all the settings that we knew
about and again this is going to look
very similar to the project builder
project that you've seen before
so that's how you get your code into
project builder and now I'm going to go
back to the slides and let onder's come
out and talk about how you customize the
build process once you've got everything
in there thanks done so now we've seen a
couple of different ways which you can
bring your source code into project
builder and now that we have a project
I'm going to talk a little bit about how
you can customize it so again here's how
project builder fits in and we've seen
the importing and we're focusing on this
part so there are a couple of ways of
customizing the build I'm going to talk
about three of them in roughly the order
of increasing flexibility first one is
just editing build settings compiler
Flags linker flags big browsers they're
defined that type of thing if you need
more flexibility you can actually modify
how it targets built and add your own
build phases to for example copy files
or run scripts at any point in the build
if you have a new make a new based
project for example with it they'll make
file or highly customized build system
you can also add a mention in the
previous session you can also invoke a
custom build tool to build the project
that way so editing the builds the build
settings again a project builder target
consists of one or more build settings
that do things like compile source files
incorporate the resources into the
product and that finally link your
compiled sources against the frameworks
and produce the output and there are
target settings that apply to these
builds one or more of these build phases
for example compiler Flags you want
optimization what kind of alignment you
want those sorts of things we also have
other targets based settings such as the
install location if you intend to
install this framework somewhere on the
file system what do you intend it to go
we can build for deployment we can also
add custom settings in the first session
Dave showed the target settings panel
and we have a table view where right now
with the expert mode and so you can add
really any build setting that you want
and those will be available in the build
agents that I'm going to describe later
so this is the simplest way of editing
your project settings
just checking switches entering values
and tables and for many of the projects
this is all you ever need to do if you
need a little bit more flexibility you
can actually add a build phase to copy
arbitrary sets of files or folders to
arbitrary places in the file system you
can either copy it into special folders
inside of the bundle that you're
building for example if you're building
an application
well that's packaged just an application
wrapper and in Mac OS 10 and it has
various sub locations so for example if
you're practicing frameworks together
with your application they will go into
a framework sub direct subfolder and you
can actually use copy files build phase
to encounters then we have support for
some of the standard ones or you can
just enter any path that you that you
want the other thing is use the copy
files build phase for is to copy a file
or folder to an arbitrary place in the
file system say you want to install some
release notes into local developer
release notes forever when you deploy or
your application so you can have a copy
file build phase for that if you need
some more flexibility than that you can
actually add a script build phase and
execute arbitrarily complex script
commands at any point during the build
so this is very powerful you could
actually generate files based on the
contents of other files you could even
go have a command that goes out across
the net and fetches some files
brings in some records from database
whatever and the scripts have full
access to the build settings I mentioned
before that you could add your own build
settings to the target Settings panel
and any script can access any of those
they also have access to the standard
settings such as what's the install
location
what's the optimization level that's in
effect you want debugging that sort of
thing and you can use it for anything
but primarily they're currently used for
make file preamble and post sample
conversion so John mentioned that if you
have a project builder role project with
a lot of customized make files we may
not import all of those things and you
used to have to put commands by editing
the make file type code sample directly
well now you put those commands into a
part of the UI and just enter it in
between the
I'll show you that in the demo later on
the other thing you can use it for as
opposed to install action suppose you
want to change some permissions of a
particular file or suppose you want to
invoke a tool like a new tar to just
package up your project or whatever you
can do anything you like with that
and finally the feature that they've
mentioned that we've talked about before
for a project would own customized build
systems such as for example of new
projects a project that you got from
somewhere and you want to commit sources
or commit your changes back to that
without changing the build system you
can use a legacy target and what you can
do in this case is to take the project
bring it into project builders you can
use the editor debugger all those nice
features and for the build you say go
use that tool over there and that could
be you make for example or it could be
any other type of a tool and in fact you
can invoke any command you want there
but typically we use for make file and
so the one caveat with this is it's
great you get a lot of flexibility you
can override their build system
completely but of course that means that
if you add project files project builder
is not going to know about that so in
that case we'll still have to edit to
make file so we expect most people will
want to bring their projects in through
one of the importers and use it as a
full project or project but we have this
legacy target feature in case you're
working with open open software things
like that so I'm going to ask
microphones to come up and help me do a
demo of this some show off some of these
features first of all let's go ahead and
make the simple text micro-target active
it's already active and let's go ahead
and add an icon in this case sorry I'm
on the completely wrong script here so
we imported a simple text project and if
we go to the simple text add C file I
take a look at this project before so I
happen to know that it has a special
preprocessor defined to use the new
framework syntax for importing Carbon
headers that define was not set in the
code or XML project so let's go ahead
and add that now let's scroll down to
yeah down to the simple text see there
and just go ahead and copy the string so
we can paste it into the build settings
and if we switch over to the targets and
we go into the build settings we see
some build settings here the general
settings at the top install location we
have some directory user interface at
this point for the compiler settings as
Mike shows you you can collapse those if
you don't want to see all of it and
let's go down to the build flags at the
bottom there and add a dash d and then
paste that preprocessor macro into the
other C flags so we're planning on
adding directed user interface for this
as well a nice whole list of all the
preprocessor macros you wanted to find
those kinds of things in the meantime
the expert mode gets you gives you the
ability to add anything you want so that
should be all we need
so let's go ahead and head build and
watch synth effects build here so as
they mentioned the first session the top
card of the pane there shows the
warnings and errors you have the bottom
card shows the expert settings that part
CAG it shows the expert bill log that
part can actually be collapsed if you
want by just dragging the split view
there we have a couple of warnings that
I think a harmless in this case but we
do have some link errors and those look
like the speech synthesis framework is
missing so Mike's going to go up to the
project menu and we'll add the framework
it's a standard system framework the
open panel takes them to the standard
system location for frameworks and just
choose speech synthesis and if we build
again let's go ahead and add that to the
simple text my code target and as you
see it appears down and the list of
frameworks that does target links again
so if we've built again it should work
fine this time
so it's linking to simple text
and build succeeded so let's go ahead
with that and so we built simple text
after importing it from the code warrior
project that have been exported as an
XML and we're able to get it up and
running and building here in fairly
short order so that's great so let's go
ahead and and take a look at some of the
other ways in which you can configure
the build here let's add a copy files
build say suppose we have a release note
file that we want to install into a
particular file system location after we
build for install so I can add a new
copy files build phase and as you can
see in the pop-up there we list a set of
standard system locations currently says
resources you can pick anything there
that's inside of the application wrapper
these are standard sub sub locations or
you can pick an absolute path and that's
what mics can do in this case and enter
an appropriate path into the system for
Apple provided release notes you won't
be in sewing here and I'm going to check
the box that says copy only when
installing and sophistic oh okay I'll
take a look at that after the demo all
right so we have a path so what we need
to do now is to add the actual release
note file to the project and so we under
the project menu we have add files I'm
going to go ahead and add you just have
a sample RTF file there could be
anything and I'm going to add that and
we're not going to edit to a target in
this case because we're going to drag it
into our special build phase later on we
just want to add to the project for now
and it's going to appear it there under
instances and we can just drag it and
drop it into the files area of the
target that we could drag as many files
as we want any folders as well and
they'll all get put into that location
we could also add other copy files gold
faces we had other location
okay so now we're going to show how we
could actually add custom build commands
as part of the build
so mics can add a shell script build
phase and by default the shell there is
been SH but it could be anything you
could in fact invoke Perl and invoke
some pro commands as part of your build
in this case it may be hard for those of
you sitting the back to read but Mike's
entering little scripts that just echoes
the one line timestamp to a log file
whenever we build the project so just
just amidst a log whenever the project
builds successfully so that's all done
and we're not checking the run only when
installing box because in this case we
actually want it to execute every time
we build the product so if we get set
build then we saw some output in the
build log up there but if we open the
build log file we can actually see that
a line was emitted to that file so right
there so just to show it's not fake well
build again and then just revert to show
you that it's executing all those
commands and it's updating so this is a
powerful way in which you can add any
any kind of customization you want as
part of the build and it really is quite
flexible and finally let's go ahead and
show a legacy target and in this case
I'm actually not going to invoke you
make - to invoke make I'm actually going
to invoke some other tool just an
arbitrary command so Mike is creating a
new legacy make file target just call it
count lions we're going to have a little
command that counts all the lines of
your source code and the default tool
has been mates and the fault default
parameter is the action so if you don't
change anything it's going to try to
invoke make which is going to look for
make file and this is probably the
primary reason you would use a legacy
target we're just going to enter a fun
little command here to just find your
source files
and pass them through a little tool
that's going to count the lines so just
give us an idea of what this how
flexible this can be the correct looks
right so it's going to find our headers
files or C files and the resource file
and so it's going to make this target
active if you notice Mike check in the
little checkbox there and we just have
build to run this target and in this
case all it does is just count the lines
of source code so you can actually use
this for a wide range of different uses
if you want and normally you're not
going to need to do this to build your
project to build your product but you
may want to do this kind of thing - for
example package of resources or or
whatever and my dependencies we can also
make the count lines being invoked
anytime the main simple text dot o is
built so just add a dependency make
simple text Auto be the default target
and and we can build it and and the
output will get emitted to the log and
then we'll proceed with the build so
this summarizes some of the features of
project builder we're working on adding
convenient UI so that you should never
have to type any of these commands if
you don't want to but the power is there
underneath so you can do pretty much
anything you like - and at this point
I'm going to hand it over to Mike and
he's going to talk a little bit about
the application features application
packaging features of project builder so
I can't emphasize enough how important
the application packaging and the
bundling structure is to Mac os10
it's pervasive alright almost everything
on the system is packaged as a bundle
and so it was very important for us to
make sure that we had full support for
building bundles in project builders
alright we've seen this slide a couple
times before and we're going to be
talking about how project builder
building stuff so I want to just briefly
talk a little bit and then we'll get
right on to the demo because that
exciting part so we'll talk a little bit
about building bundles we'll talk a
little bit about managing your
info.plist which is one of the the main
pieces of your bundle so it provides all
the metadata that's needed to tell other
subsystems what your bundle does we'll
talk a little bit about resource
handling we'll talk about bundle
resources which are just files that you
own your bundle as well as resource
management resources for carbon apps and
specifically I want to touch on
localization features and how we support
that in project builder and then finally
we'll talk a little bit about how you
get just random other stuff embedded in
your bundle if you need it to be so
first of all project builder has full
support for building bundles
applications frameworks and bundle
targets all produce bundles in the end
bundle targets is what you would use to
build say a plug-in we're going to
automatically construct the bundle as
part of the build process all right so
you don't have to configure that at all
if you have an application framework or
bundle target we're going to produce the
full bundle for you and the build system
knows where all the pieces go and for
any pieces that you have that are custom
you can tell us where to put them now
the info.plist is an XML file that each
bundle has which declares various things
that are needed by different pieces of
the system so CF bundle which is the
core foundation facility for dealing
with bundles uses a lot of keys in the
bundle for instance the executable name
of the actual binary that is inside your
bundle that is the app that's supposed
to be run that's declared in the
info.plist the finder also declares
various things that it wants to find in
your info.plist to do things like
associate documents with your
application to figure out what icon to
show for your application and so forth
and project builder allows you to manage
your info.plist completely and we
provide some custom UI for all the
common stuff that you want to do
we'll show that a little bit and we also
provide an arbitrary plist editor if you
have custom content that you need to put
in your P list that you'll use if we've
forgotten something and in the custom UI
you can do it in expert UI so okay
resources there's kind of two there's
two kinds of resources the term is a
little bit overloaded bundle resources
are just files that go inside your
bundle and resource manager resources
are the resources that you typically
find you know in the resource fork of a
mac OS application both of these types
of resources in Mac OS 10 can be global
or localizable when they're localizable
you have multiple versions for different
languages that you're going to support
they can also be platform specific so if
you need to have a slightly different
version of a resource for your mac os9
carbon you know application and your Mac
OS 10 the carbon application you can
still package those all in the same
bundle and the correct version will be
used depending on which platform the app
is running on now project builder also
helps you to make sure that the bundles
that you're building satisfy the
requirements and the main requirements
are that for a localizable resource you
must have a version for your development
region your project is going to have a
development region so by default that's
English but if you choose to develop
your primary interface in French or in
Japanese or whatever you can do that the
bundle knows what its development region
is project builder knows what the
development region is and it's going to
make sure that at the very least you
have a version of each resource of the
development region and then you can have
versions for every you know all the
other regions as well and then finally
if you're going to have platform
specific resources you also must have a
platform generic resource and that's
just in case you find yourself running
on a platform that you did not
anticipate there'll be a version to use
okay and then finally we'll cover like I
said other bundle content you can use
copy files build phases as been
mentioned before to copy stuff into your
bundle tools can be put into the
executables directory of your bundle if
your app needs to make use of some
command line tool in some cases you can
put frameworks inside the bundle you can
put other support files whatever you
want to put in there all right now I'm
going to invite onder's back up to do
some of this demoing so the first thing
we're going to do because of course aqua
you know you have to have an icon for
aqua so let's add an icon to simple text
now the code warrior project did not
have the icns file as part of the
project so it didn't import when we
imported that code warrior project but I
happen to know that there is a nice ENS
file here so onder's is going to
actually go and add that icns file to
the project and we'll go ahead and let
it get added to the simple text target
and okay you see it appear there and if
we actually go to the target editor for
simple text you'll see that it also
appeared in the bundle resources days in
Mac OS 10 icons are just files that go
inside the bundle they're stored in the
icns format but they're just separate
files that sit inside the resources
directory of your bundle so project
builder knew to put that file into the
bundle resources phase so that it'll be
copy and when you build now the other
thing though is that we have to tell the
info.plist about our icon so the finder
will know that it's supposed to display
it for us now we do that in the
application settings tab of the target
and you can see that there's a bunch of
text fields here onder's will enter the
icon name in the icon field and then
while we're here maybe we can set a few
other things we should probably have a
creator code other than for question
marks so let's do that
and it's a good idea for bundles to have
an identifier string as well bundle
identifier czar useful for integrating
with the CF preferences facility there
also
useful for locating the corefoundation
bundle instance at runtime for your your
application or for your framework or for
your loadable bundle okay and by the way
we we recommend Java package naming
conventions for the identifiers just to
ensure that uniqueness now we have
settings for a bunch of stuff in the
custom UI here but there's more stuff
than where we'll be adding more custom
UI in the future but we also have this
expert mode and this just shows you the
raw property list you can edit stuff
there arbitrarily if you have custom
content that you want to put in your P
list because maybe your program wants to
access it at runtime you can do that
there you'll notice that the things that
we changed in the custom UI have already
showed up here now we won't bother with
any other P list settings now though so
let's move on to resources and in
particular localization now onder's is
going to go ahead and go find all the
rest of the dot r files because actually
in the code warrior project the only one
that was part of the project is main dot
R because it just imports all the other
ones but because we want to do some
localization we'll go ahead and add all
the other files to the project just so
we have them to work with so onder's is
finding all those and we'll add them now
we won't add them to any target because
the main dot r is already part of our
research manager build phase and it just
imports all the other ones so we're not
going to bother with adding them to the
target but now they're part of our
project there's one in particular
localized R that happens to contain all
of the strings that need to be localized
in tech a simple text interface so
that's the one that we want to make a
localized version of and to do that
we'll use the project inspector and you
can see there's a pulldown called
localization and platform and all we
need to do is say make this a localized
resource you'll notice that a disclosure
triangle appeared next to it and if we
disclose that you can see that there's
basically a list of the very
versions that we have of this resource
when we first make it localized you're
only going to have a version for your
development region but the whole point
of this is we want to localize the thing
so let's make another variant for say
Japanese now notice that it added
another line there so we have English
and Japanese now the English version are
sorry the Japanese version starts out as
just a copy of the English version but
it's a separate copy so now you can go
in and edit the Japanese version to
translate it into Japanese and the
project builder build system takes care
of all of this so it knows where the
global resources are supposed to go and
the localized resources are supposed to
go it compiles them all separately it
puts them in the right places and
everything you know will be automatic so
that's just a taste of the localization
support and finally let's just show one
more thing which is let's say that
simple text had a command line tool that
it wanted to run in some circumstances
of course it wouldn't show it to the
user at all but it would maybe use it in
the background to do some stuff and you
would like to have that command line
tool be part of simple text so let's go
ahead and create a new target and it
will be a tool target they will just
call my helper tool
so now we have this new target and if
you open it up we can see that it
doesn't actually have any files in it
and we're not actually going to build a
tool now but this would you know if we
filled in some source files to be
compiled this would build us a command
line tool now we want to set up a
dependency because for us to build
simple text and have it be complete we
also have to build this command line
tool so onder's will just set up the
target dependency to make sure that the
helper tool builds whenever we build
simple text and if we switch back to the
files tab when we added the tool target
in the products group which is sort of
an automatically managed group of the
project you'll see that a line was added
for the helper tool this line refers to
the actual tool that will be produced it
shows up in red because we haven't built
it yet so it doesn't actually exist on
the disk but the reference is there and
we can make use of it so we'll go back
to the simple text target and we're
going to create another one of these
copy files build phases now we can't use
the one we did before because this one
is going to copy stuff to a different
place so we'll just do a separate one
and we did an absolute path one before
this time what we want is for the tool
to be installed into the executables
area of the bundle so we just choose
executables if you wanted it to be
nested underneath the executable
somewhere and you could use that sub
path field but we don't want to do that
we also don't want to do the only one
installing because this tool should be
part of the thing whenever we build it
and finally we have to tell what it's
going to copy so we just drag in the
reference for the helper tool there and
now whenever we build simple text it'll
first build that tool and then make sure
that tool gets installed into the
executables of the simple text app
package so that simple text can find it
at runtime now this is just sort of a
taste of the the degree to which we've
tried to integrate the bundle packaging
scheme into project builders basic model
and we can see some more detail on some
of this in the Mac os10 localization
session especially as it applies to
localized
and carbon and cocoa applications for
now I want to invite John back up here
one last time and he's going to sign
some of this up for us and then we'll do
some Q&A so what we talked about today
is just the first step in using project
builder there's a lot of other stuff
that we we could have covered today but
we'll leave that for now for you to
explore again you can take any one of
these three variants of a project pull
it into project builder use the app then
to customize it however you want and
then finally produce one of the Mac os10
bundles and a framework and or a curtal
kernel loadable module so there's some
support resources public emailing list
if you have some feedback for us and
it's the feedback Elias is Mac OS tool
feedback and group tackle comm and we
also have the fee-based support with DTS